Patch 6 (#2262)
openturns/openturns: python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/form_approximation.rst

optimization problem.

**Step 3**: In the standard space, approximate the limit state surface by a linear surface at the design point :math:`P^*`. Then, the probability
:math:`P_f` :eq:`PfU3` where the limit state surface has been approximated by a linear surface (hyperplane) can be obtained exactly, thanks to the rotation invariance of the standard distribution :math:`f_{\vect{U}}`:

.. math::
    :label: PfFORM

        P_{f,FORM} =
            \left|
            \begin{array}{ll}
              E(-\beta) & \mbox{if the origin fails}, \\
              E(+\beta) & \mbox{otherwise}
            \end{array}
            \right.

where :math:`\beta` is the Hasofer-Lind reliability index, defined as the distance of the design point
:math:`P^*` to the origin of the standard space and :math:`E` the marginal cumulative density function along any direction of
the spherical distribution in the standard space (refer to :ref:`nataf_transformation` and :ref:`rosenblatt_transformation`).

Let us recall here that in the Rosenblatt standard space, random vectors follow the standard
normal
distribution (with zero mean, unit variance and unit correlation matrix), which implies that

> :math:`E = \Phi` where :math:`Phi` is the CDF of the normal distribution with zero mean and unit variance. In the Generalized Nataf standard space, random vectors follow a spherical

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31351465/235299594-58f71538-a65d-49c8-a404-d6c189a22b40.png)

```suggestion
:math:`E = \Phi` where :math:`\Phi` is the CDF of the normal distribution with zero mean and unit variance. In the Generalized Nataf standard space, random vectors follow a spherical
```

> distribution, with zero mean, unit variance, unit correlation matrix and whose type :math:`\psi` is the type of the copula of the physical random vector :math:`\vect{X}`: in that case, :math:`E` is the 1D cumulative  distribution function with zero mean, unit variance and with type :math:`\psi`.

Reviewer: The "References" section below is poorly formatted:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31351465/235197859-0b8f3ac4-4339-4242-838f-38df339c3935.png)

Actually, most theory help pages in this PR have the same issue.

Author: ok

FORM
----

The First Order Reliability Method is used under the following
context: let :math:`\vect{X}` be a probabilistic input vector with
joint density probability  :math:`\pdf`, let :math:`\vect{d}` be a
deterministic vector, let  :math:`g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d})` be the

> limit state function of 	    the model and let :math:`\cD_f =

Reviewer 2: why the spaces ?

Author: yes...

\{\vect{X} \in \Rset^n \,   / \, g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d}) \le 0\}` be

> an event which probability :math:`P_f` is defined as:

Author: ok

.. math::
    :label: PfX5

      P_f = \Prob{g(\vect{X}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0}=   \int_{\cD_f}  \pdf\, d\vect{x}

The objective of FORM is to evaluate :math:`P_f`. The method proceeds in three steps:

**Step 1**: Map the probabilistic model in terms of :math:`\vect{X}` thanks to an
isoprobabilistic transformation :math:`T` which is a diffeomorphism from
:math:`\supp{\vect{X}}` into :math:`\Rset^n`, such that the distribution of the random vector
:math:`\vect{U}=T(\vect{X})` has
the following properties: :math:`\vect{U}` and :math:`\mat{R}\,\vect{U}` have the same distribution for all rotations :math:`\mat{R}\in{\cS\cO}_n(\Rset)`.
The usual isoprobabilistic transformations are the Generalized
Nataf transformation and the Rosenblatt one.
The mapping of the limit state function is

> :math:`G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d}) =  g(T^{-1}(\vect{U})\,,\,\vect{d})`.

Reviewer: I would suggest the same notations as suggested in python/doc/theory/numerical_methods/isoprobabilistic_transformation.rst, since there is a potential confusion between upper case G and lower case g.
```suggestion
:math:`h(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d}) =  g(T^{-1}(\vect{U})\,,\,\vect{d})`.
```

Author: I think it is not a good idea because of the amount of the doc to be changed....

Reviewer: I agree that this requires some work. Compared to the work already done, however, this is not that significant. Keeping a poor notation choice cannot be a solution neither. Secondly, that notation is not used in many places: at most 10 pages. Finally, new helps pages such as the PR [2272](https://github.com/openturns/openturns/pull/2272) propagate that poor notation choice for consistency reasons. Hence, not fixing this in this page means to fix more pages in a near future. While we are at fixing these particular pages (and not others), why not finish that?

To quantify the required changes, I used the next bash command:
```
$ find python/doc/theory -name "*.rst" -print | xargs -d "\n" grep -w "G"
```
and I find 23 matching lines, half of which are bibliographic references. After manual filtering, here are the 14 results:
```
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/sorm_approximation.rst:    P_f = \Prob{G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{G(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}) \leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/sensitivity_form.rst:  :math:`G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{\theta}) =  g[T^{-1}(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{\theta}), \vect{d}]`,
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/sensitivity_form.rst:      \nabla_{\vect{\theta}} \beta_{HL} =  \displaystyle +\frac{1}{||\nabla_{\vect{\theta}} G(U_{\vect{\theta}}^{*}, \vect{d})||} \nabla_{\vect{u}} G(U_{\vect{\theta}}^{*}, \vect{d}).
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/subset_sampling.rst:These thresholds are estimated as :math:`\alpha_{SS}` quantiles from the set of :math:`N` samples of LSF outputs :math:`\mathcal{G}_{u,s} = \{ \overset{\circ}{g}(U^{(j)}) \}_{j=1}^N` with :math:`\alpha_{SS} \in ]0, 1[` the *rarity parameter*. Consequently, one can notice that
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/form_approximation.rst::math:`G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d}) =  g(T^{-1}(\vect{U})\,,\,\vect{d})`.
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/form_approximation.rst:    P_f = \Prob{G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{G(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}\leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}
python/doc/theory/reliability_sensitivity/strong_maximum_test.rst:the event has the new expression defined from the transformed limit state function of the model :math:`G`: :math:`\cD_f = \{\vect{U} \in \Rset^n \, / \, G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d}) \le 0\}`.
python/doc/theory/numerical_methods/isoprobabilistic_transformation.rst:    P_f = \Prob{G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{G(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}) \leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}
python/doc/theory/numerical_methods/isoprobabilistic_transformation.rst::math:`G=g\circ T^{-1}`.
python/doc/theory/probabilistic_modeling/estimate_spectral_density_function.rst:     \hat{G}_{\vect{x}}(f_p,T)&=&\frac{2}{T}\vect{X}_{k}(f_p,T)\,{\vect{X}_{k}(f_p,T)^*}^t,\quad p=0,\dots,L/2-1\end{aligned}
python/doc/theory/probabilistic_modeling/estimate_spectral_density_function.rst:-  Bias\ :math:`=\mathbb{E}[\hat{G}_{\vect{x}}(f_p, T)-G_{\vect{X}}(f_p)]=(\frac{1}{T}W_B(f_p, T)-\delta_0)*G_{\vect{X}}(f_p)`
python/doc/theory/probabilistic_modeling/estimate_spectral_density_function.rst:.. math:: \hat{G}_{\vect{x}}(f_p,T)=\frac{2}{KT}\sum_{k=0}^{K-1}\vect{X}^{(k)}(f_p,T)\vect{X}^{(k)}(f_p,T)^t
python/doc/theory/probabilistic_modeling/estimate_spectral_density_function.rst:.. math:: \mathbb{E}[\hat{G}_{\vect{x}}(f_p, T)-G_{\vect{X}}(f_p)=(\frac{1}{T}W(f_p, T)-\delta_0)*G_{\vect{X}}(f_p)
```

Not that big of a deal after all, isn't it?

Author: ok... It is really because it is you... :-)
In the estimate_spectral_density_function.rst file, G is the spectral density funciton : so I did not change it!

Then, the event probability :math:`P_f` can be written as:

.. math::
    :label: PfU3

>     P_f = \Prob{G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{G(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}\leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    P_f = \Prob{h(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{h(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}\leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}
```

Author: the same comment as before...

Author: ok.

>     P_f = \Prob{G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{G(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}\leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}

Author: To reman coherent with the rets of the documentation, I prefer to maintain this notation.

>     P_f = \Prob{G(\vect{U}\,,\,\vect{d})\leq 0} = \int_{\Rset^n} \boldsymbol{1}_{G(\vect{u}\,,\,\vect{d}\leq 0}\,f_{\vect{U}}(\vect{u})\,d\vect{u}

Author: I finally changed it!

where :math:`f_{\vect{U}}` is the density function of the distribution in the standard space:
that distribution is spherical (invariant by rotation by definition). That property implies that :math:`f_{\vect{U}}` is a function of :math:`||\vect{U}||^2` only.

> Furthermore, we suppose that outside the sphere which tangents the limit state surface in the standard space, :math:`f_{\vect{U}}` is decreasing.

Author: ok

**Step 2**: Find the design point :math:`P^*` which is the point
verifying the event of maximum likelihood : the decreasing hypothesis of the standard

> distribution :math:`f_{\vect{U}}` outside the sphere which tangents the limit state surface in

Author: ok

> the standard space implies that the design point is the point on the limit state boundary the
> nearest to the origin of the standard space. Thus, :math:`P^*` is the result of a constrained

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the standard space implies that the design point is the point on the limit state boundary that is
closest to the origin of the standard space. Thus, :math:`P^*` is the result of a constrained
```

Author: pk

optimization problem.

> **Step 3**: In the standard space, approximate the limit state surface in the
> standard space by a linear surface at the design point :math:`P^*`. Then, the probability

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Step 3**: In the standard space, approximate the limit state surface
by a linear surface at the design point :math:`P^*`. Then, the probability
```

Author: ok

> :math:`P_f` :eq:`PfU3` where the limit state surface has been approximated by a linear surface (hyperplane) can be obtained exactly, thanks to the rotation invariance of the standard distribution :math:`f_{\vect{U}}`:

Reviewer: The next equation uses "E" meaning the CDF of the isoprobabilistic transformation, which is undefined at this point. I would suggest to add a pointer to the "Isoprobabilistic transformations" theory help page (how can we do that?) where the function "E" should be introduced in a general setting.

Reviewer: Well done:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31351465/235299573-8ee00156-33b8-4dfe-8ac4-10468a58370e.png)

> :math:`P_f` :eq:`PfU3` where the limit state surface has been approximated by a linear surface (hyperplane) can be obtained exactly, thanks to the rotation invariance of the standard distribution :math:`f_{\vect{U}}`::doc:

Reviewer 3: Is a reference missing here? If not, then simply apply my suggestion:
```suggestion
:math:`P_f` :eq:`PfU3` where the limit state surface has been approximated by a linear surface (hyperplane) can be obtained exactly, thanks to the rotation invariance of the standard distribution :math:`f_{\vect{U}}`:
```

Author: no reference needed

.. math::
    :label: PfFORM

        P_{f,FORM} =
            \left|
            \begin{array}{ll}

>               E(-\beta) & \mbox{if the origin of the $\vect{u}$-lies in the domain $\cD_f$} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              E(-\beta) & \mbox{if the origin fails}, \\
```

Author: ok

>               E(+\beta) & \mbox{otherwise}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              E(+\beta) & \mbox{if the origin is safe},
```

Author: ok

            \end{array}
            \right.

where :math:`\beta` is the Hasofer-Lind reliability index, defined as the distance of the design point

> :math:`P^*` to the origin of the standard space and :math:`E` the marginal cumulative density function of

Reviewer 3: Not sure my suggestion is well formulated, but I think "the" marginal distribution might mislead readers. It is necessary IMO to emphasize that all marginals of the spherical distribution are the same.
```suggestion
:math:`P^*` to the origin of the standard space and :math:`E` the marginal cumulative density function along any direction of
```

Author: yes!

> the spherical distributions in the standard space (refer to :ref:`nataf_transformation` and :ref:`rosenblatt_transformation`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the spherical distribution in the standard space (refer to :ref:`nataf_transformation` and :ref:`rosenblatt_transformation`).
```

Author: ok

Let us recall here that in the Rosenblatt standard space, random vectors follow the standard
normal
distribution (with zero mean, unit variance and unit correlation matrix), which implies that

> :math:`E = \Phi`. In the Generalized Nataf standard space, random vectors follow some spherical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`E = \Phi` where :math:`\Phi` is the CDF of the standard Gaussian (univariate) distribution. In the Generalized Nataf standard space, random vectors follow some spherical
```

Author: That is ok!

> :math:`E = \Phi` where :math:`Phi` is the CDF of the normal distribution with zero mean and unit variance. In the Generalized Nataf standard space, random vectors follow some spherical
> distributions, with zero mean, unit variance, unit correlation matrix and which type :math:`\psi` is the one of the copula of the physical random vector :math:`\vect{X}`: in that case, :math:`E` is the 1D cumulative  distribution function with zero mean, unit variance and which type is :math:`\psi`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:math:`E = \Phi` where :math:`Phi` is the CDF of the normal distribution with zero mean and unit variance. In the Generalized Nataf standard space, random vectors follow a spherical
distribution, with zero mean, unit variance, unit correlation matrix and whose type :math:`\psi` is the type of the copula of the physical random vector :math:`\vect{X}`: in that case, :math:`E` is the 1D cumulative  distribution function with zero mean, unit variance and with type :math:`\psi`.
```

Author: ok
